# User Research

### Why are we doing this?

- **Objective:** Understand the users
- Enough data to make design decisions for website, home and Journey revamp. What to highlight, What users look for and How they look for?
- Set up a User Research process for the product design team.
- Financial behaviour, needs, and  Why LAMF.
- **Key Questions:** What challenges do they face in accessing loans? What are their main financial goals and constraints? What drives their trust in a lender?

### How are we doing this?

Goal is to talk to 200 users. Make an user doc based on the data that can we referred for product, design and marketing decisions. 

1. User Surveys
2. Qualitative Interviews

### Understanding User’s  behaviour

1. Can you walk me through the last time you considered taking a loan, why did you take it? (To understand the why and when an user takes a loan)

1. "Imagine you’re looking at two different lenders. What kind of things make you feel one is better than the other?” (To understand things they consider while making the decision to take a loan)

1. "What would achieving your financial goals look and feel like to you?" (To reveal aspirational needs and emotional motivators by having them visualize their desired outcomes.)

1. "What are some of your fears, if any, about using online platforms for financial needs?" (Understand trust issues if any with online platforms)

- **Purpose of the loan**
- **Monthly Income:**
- **Marital Status:**
- Digital behaviour
    - Social media behaviour
    - Banking and payments
    - 

### Demographics Data

- Age
- Gender
- Location
- City tier
- Educational Qualification
- Channel :
- Profession
    - Source of income
- Purpose of loan
- Average loan amount group by Purpose of loan