# Term Loan: Apportionment Logic

- Apportionment is the distribution of a paid sum of money across multiple components of a loan/tranche in order to knock off/settle these components.
- Apportionment logic will be based in the order of IPC.
- In case of a single tranche apportionment the order will be: Interest Overdue>Principal Overdue>Interest Due>Principal Due>Charge. In case there are multiple EMIs of the Tranche which are overdue then apportionment will start from the oldest EMI overdue.
- In case of multiple tranches apportionment the order will be: Oldest EMI overdue(Interest>Principal)>Oldest EMI due(Interest>Principal)>Charges. In case of EMIs overdue across multiple tranches the oldest EMI across tranches will be apportioned first then the apportioning will be done for the next oldest EMI across the tranches and so on so forth. In case all the overdue EMIs are cleared/apportioned the next apportioning will be done for the oldest due EMI and once the oldest due EMI is apportioned then apportioning of the next oldest due EMI will be done and so on so forth. Once all the overdue and due EMIs are apportioned across tranches, apportionment of charges will start and it will also be done based in the order of the oldest charge getting apportioned first i.e. in the chronological order.
- If after the apportionment of all the components there is an excess which remains then we will ask the user to select the tranche wherein the excess will be adjusted. The excess adjustment will happen in a way that either the Tenure of the Tranche is reduced or the EMI of the Tranche is reduced based on the user’s selection. Default option(in case user does not select) will always be to reduce the tenure keeping the EMI same for the oldest Tranche.