# DSP Website

: Gautam Mahesh
Created time: August 30, 2024 8:45 PM
Status: In progress
Last edited: October 8, 2024 7:17 PM
Owner: Gautam Mahesh

# **What problem are we solving?**

As a regulated entity, DSP needs to have a website in its name with basic details. This is required from a regulatory  perspective to disclose key policies, procedures, etc.

In addition, certain borrowers also research the lender they have taken a loan from and would want to reach out for any concern or query.

---

# **How do we measure success?**

We will measure the success of the website as below.

- Uptime > 99%
- Page loading time < 7s
- Communicate the basic value proposition to visitors
- Have all the required disclosures as per RBI

---

# **How are others solving this problem?**

All other lenders in the market in the similar space have their own website which covers their products, capabilities as well as partners. 

---

# **What is the solution?**

## Requirements overview (optional)

DSP’s website will be hosted under the [https://dspfin.com/](https://dspfin.com/) domain and will have the below drop-downs.

- Homepage: this will be the page which will cover the key aspects of DSP
- 
- About Us: this section will cover the key aspects of the company as below
    - Company: this page will cover the aspects of the management team, etc
    - Partners: this page will mention the DLA/LSP partners of DSP
- Contact Us: this section will navigate to the Contact us page of DSP

Below are the items that will be mentioned in the footer.

- Terms & Conditions: this page will cover the terms & conditions of DSP
- Grievance Redressal Policy: this page will cover the terms & conditions of DSP
- Fair Practices Code: this page will cover the fair practices code of DSP

## User stories / User flow

### Homepage

This will be the homepage that will be hosted at [https://dspfin.com/](https://dspfin.com/). The objective of this page will be to educate visitors about the offerings of DSP finance. We want to use this page to talk about DSP finance’s legacy (DSP group) and its offerings in the secured lending space.

**Hero Block**

Title: Fast and Affordable Loans Against Mutual Funds

Sub-title: Disbursal under 15 minutes

**About DSP**

DSP Finance a registered NBFC (Non-banking finance company) that is part of the DSP group ([https://www.dspim.com/about-us](https://www.dspim.com/about-us)) that manages more than 1.5L Crores of AUM of more than 50L investors in India. 

**Benefits**

Below are the benefits we want to call out to visitors.

- Highly affordable facilities: Get credit facility starting at as low as 9% p.a
- Instant approval: Get a limited sanctioned instantly starting from 25K upto 5CR
- Seamless process: Fully digital process from application to disbursement under 5 minutes
- Friendly withdrawal: Withdraw funds and enhance limits as per your needs
- Flexible repayments: Repay interest only every month and principal at the end of the tenure
- Trusted & secure: Fully secure from a RBI registered NBFC

**Process**

Below are the process steps we want to call out to visitors.

Pitch - Receive funds in your own account in 1 hour!

- Limit check: check your credit limit basis your holdings
- Quick Pledge: instantly pledge the assets of your choice
- Simple KYC: complete the KYC from the app in 2 steps
- Seamless transactions: start withdrawing & repaying on demand

### Structured Finance

### Company

### Policies

**Objective**: the objective of this page is to give the visitor an overview of all the policies of DSP finance.

URL: 

Below are all the policies of DSP finance.

- Terms & Conditions
- Grievance policy
- Interest rate policy
- Fair Practices Code
- Privacy Policy
- 

### Partners

DSP Finance partners with online platforms to facilitate lending against collaterals. 

Below are our lending partners

 

- Volt Money:

### Contact Us

**Objective**: the objective of this page is to give the visitor an overview of 

### Footer

Below are the items we will cover in the footer

- DSP finance private limited is a RBI registered NBFC
- Policies: this page will cover all the policies of DSP. This page can be linked to multiple policies

## Requirements

---

# **Design**

---

# **Analytics**

---

# **Timeline/Release Planning**

---

# **Go to market**

## Marketing

## Ops & Sales training

## Frequently asked questions (FAQs)

---

# **Action items / checklist**

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

- [ ]  Product
    - [ ]  -
- [ ]  Business
    - [ ]  -
- [ ]  Design
    - [ ]  -

---

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

# **Feedback**

---

# **Learnings & Next steps**

---

# **Appendix**

## Meeting notes