# MFD Servicing

: Naman Agarwal
Created time: December 6, 2024 11:11 AM
Status: Not started
Last edited: December 17, 2024 1:46 PM

# MFD servicing

We need to provide assistance to the MFDs in completing the application process on behalf of there customers and provide servicing. 

These issues need to be identified and to be solved for reduced effort on the MFD and Volt side. 

We want to provide quick resolution to any issues our MFD might be facing , Goal of the document is to describe the process and current challenges faced by us

Ideal process 

1. MFD communicates the issues with us using WhatsApp. 
2. RM understands the issues from the Communications and raise a ticket 
3. Agent then communicates the resolution and mark the tickets as resolved 
4. We track the WhatsApp chat and Ticket analytics to understand and improve our servicing 

## Current issues

### Communications

- **Issue communication:**  We use WhatsApp based tools for the MFD to communicate with us (preferred mode of communication by the MFDs). We have the two tools that we currently use
    - **Periskope: U**sed for providing Group chats to the MFD.
        - Periskope is based on Whatsapp app. It does not provide good tracking for the chats and expect us to create tickets to track issues
        - Pros
            - If MFD has a employees then they can be served by a whatsapp group better to have a one channel for updates *~ 300 groups currently with >1 MFD member.*
            - If MFD has a escalation then escalation can be handled on group ~ *this really has a bandwidth issues for Kapil or Bharat. We should have a separate channel for the grievance.*
            - If the RM is on leave and we have a group to solve then someone else can take the handover and solve the problem ~ *Currently only RM has the context on the issues of the MFD and rest of the people in group can’t takeover. The new RM has to gain context from the chat history or notes on the tickets.*
            - Convert WhatsApp messages into tickets or tasks
            - Connect with CRM systems, ticketing platforms, and other tools via APIs and web-hooks.
        - Cons
            - The platform is no longer supported by the Company
            - The API integration need to developed by Volt
            - We are not provided with most Chat level tracking like First time response, Time spend on a chat, How long the message hasn’t been responded to.
            - Tickets has to be Maintained and tracked on a 3rd party platform is to be tracked properly.
    - Wati
        - Wati is based on the WABA. It does not allows us to raise a ticket on a message of a Chat instead the Chat is treated as a ticket and its status is provided.
        - Pros
            - Create automated chatbots, automated responses and workflows without coding
            - Connect with platforms
        - Cons
            - Limitation of 24hrs from the Customers last message to free form message
            - The platform is optimised to treat a chat as a individual ticket which is not our use case.
- What we want communication platform to provide
    - Ability to track the responsiveness of the RMs
    - Ablity to assign the chats a pertiular RM

### Ticketing

- **Issue Ticketing:** All Issues raised should have a ticket created against them as tickets help us to
    - Keep a track of the issues and their resolutions
    - Keep track of issues breakdown L1, L2, L3 buckets and ongoing issues breakup at a glance
    - Provide issue wise TAT and help in prioritising product developments
- Current status
    - We currently only track Ops and tech tickets on Zendesk
    - The tickets are manually created and solved
    - Periskope ticketing system is not used.

### **Escalation**

- Grievance resolution: We need to provide a separate channel for escalation and grievance resolution. as it will provide a quick resolution to real escalations much faster

Recommendation 

- We move to Wati for the MFD other than top MFDs
- We track using tickets on the Periskope
- We develop Chatbots on Wati for most common issues

## Visibility

There are three visibility that we need. 

- Visibility on Chat messages
- Visibility on the issue resolution
- Visibility on the Impact of the Providing support

Table 1: Visibility on Interactions with MFD Partners

| Metric | Description | Current | Wati (option 1 ) | Suggested |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Total Interactions | Number of interactions with MFD partners | Tracked in Periskope |  |  |
| Call Volume | Number of calls between RMs and MFDs | exotell  |  |  |
| Chat Volume | Number of chat conversations with MFDs | Tracked in Periskope |  |  |
| Average Interaction Duration | Avg. time spent per interaction | Not on the Periskope dashboard  |  |  |
| First Response Time | Time taken by RMs to initially respond | Not feasible on periskope dashboard |  |  |
| Issue Resolution Time | Time taken to resolve issues | Not tracked. APi to be checked  |  |  |
| Unopened Messages | Unopened messages | Tracked in Periskope |  |  |
- RM green ticket , business logic , who read the messages - caveat on what happening

Table 2: Visibility on Issue Resolution

| Metric | Description | Current | Suggested |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tickets Volume | Total number of issues raised by MFDs | Partially tracked (ops) |  |
| Tickets Categorisation | L1, L2,L3 categorisation of the raised Tickets* | Not tracked |  |
| Resolution Rate | Percentage of issues resolved successfully | Not tracked |  |
| TAT | Average time taken to resolve issues | Jira and zendesk Tickets is tracker |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

Table 3: Visibility on Business Impact

| Metric | Description | Current | Suggested |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| MFD Satisfaction | Feedback from MFD partners | ad-hoc | Have a Per application Feedback taking  |
| Loan Volume | Total loan volume facilitated | Tracked in core systems |  |
| Revenue Impact | Incremental revenue from MFD partnerships | Tracked in core systems |  |
| Cost to Serve | Cost of providing support to MFDs | Not tracked |  |
| Partner Retention | Long-term retention of MFD partners | Tracked informally |  |
| Referrals & Growth | New MFD acquisition from referrals | Not tracked |  |

Questions

- what are current challenges in the servicing as per the Servicing leads ?
- As per RMs ?
- 

Nitin

- Not sure how the sorting of the messages are in Periskope, - logic needed
- How to sync, - if two people opens up , who sees the Message
- No analytics in periskope or is cumbersome process to track to mark chat as open or pending and closed

Partners Wati 

- MFD understand the Central team, for servicing , they provide the sanction limit , enhancement , ad-hoc tasks.
- Currently used by onboarding team to outreach
- If the service requests come the distribution WA group , ashik would message the MFD number and the request to the RM to pick up
- there are some improvements from Periskope like unread messages, but the analytics is not well setup and the tracking is lacking

Ticketing

- for tracking the task performed by RMs there is sheet maintained by nitin to track requests

Somesh sagar

- Customer tagging issues in LSQ , jupitier , prudent are getting tagged ,
- LSQ If there is a discripcy , lender , wrong that . IMPS name match. mandate registed on HDFC , registed on SBI
- Many cases we are not clear what to do , Pan copy send as per lender request , They wanted the Self attested
- Redvision - mostly issues solved , investwell. tech issues , camera does not open , they don’t have channels to connect with the MFDs. redirects to home page
- sankash - tech issues, processing they have there own charges, they create the EMI schedule. and ask the customer principal and interested. customer calls to understand the the mismatch
- Prudent discrepancy no email process , only whatsapp
- KT , or lack of understand of RMs for the new RMs
- Disbursal delays

Kevin RM, 

- Check eligibility in 15 seconds the MFC central , unapproved , bajaj /tata credit limits
- Client is proceeding on Tata, KYC verification , and on the Mandate setup. Client do not have DC, and bank does not have the Aadhar  ~ 10%. Need to provide the p-nach with the bajaj
- MFD get the short fall comms the at the 7th days. In cases of Tata we don’t even know if there is shortfall. MFD get calls on 6-7, by the shortfall calls. MFD are not happy for us to call the shortfall. MFD can get the call on the day 1

Vishal 

- no comments

Khushboo 

- switched off

swara 

- will connect later
-