# Productisation of admin tool: Change email address or mobile number

: Ayush Kumar
Created time: July 30, 2024 11:47 AM
Status: Not started
Last edited: August 21, 2024 12:14 PM
Owner: Ayush Kumar

# **What problem are we solving?**

- When customers need to change their email or mobile number, they need to send the details to the RMs to be updated via registered email. This may cause manual errors at the customer and RMs end due to absence of validation of email and phone number.
- The admin tool for these changes cannot be used in isolation and requires communication with all third parties involved after the Loan account is created.

---

# **How do we measure success?**

---

# **How are others solving this problem?**

---

# **What is the solution?**

## Requirements overview:

“Change email address or mobile number” admin tool should be available across the LOS and LMS(Renewal, Enhancement, and Repayment) flow

- **Loan Application Flow LOS:**
    
    ### Case 1: For BAJAJ:
    
    1. **Admin Tool Functionality Before Pledge step:**
        - **Admin Tool Functionality:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must allow the change of a user's email and mobile number.
        - **Confirmation for Changes:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must be used to change the email and mobile number only after confirmation from the user via their registered mobile number or email through an OTP.
            - The updated number should also be verified by the RMs through an OTP.
    2. **Admin Tool Functionality Post-Credit Approval:**
        - **Requirement:** The admin tool should allow changes to the email and mobile number after the Credit Approval step.
        - **Confirmation for Changes:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must be used to change the email and mobile number only after confirmation from the user via their registered mobile number or email through an OTP.
            - The updated number should also be verified by the RMs through an OTP.
    - **Integration with admin tool “Recreate Lender Application”:**
        - **Requirement:** When changes are made to the email or mobile number after the Credit Approval step, the admin tool must automatically trigger the use of the **"Recreate Lender Application"** admin tool.
        - **Justification:** Triggering the **"Recreate Lender Application"** tool is necessary to direct the user back to the Credit Referral step, ensuring that BAJAJ receives the updated information and in response a new SFDC number is generated by BAJAJ. This process guarantees that the KFS and Agreement reflect the correct contact details.
    
    ### Case 2: For TATA:
    
    1. **Admin Tool Functionality before Agreement:**
        - **Admin Tool Functionality:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must allow the change of a user's email and mobile number.
        - **Confirmation for Changes:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must be used to change the email and mobile number only after confirmation from the user via their registered mobile number or email through an OTP.
            - The updated number should also be verified by the RMs through an OTP.
    
    - **Loan Management Flow LMS:**
    
    ### For TATA and BAJAJ:
    
    1. **Admin Tool Functionality post Loan Account creation:**
        - **Admin Tool Functionality:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must allow the change of a user's email and mobile number.
        - **Confirmation for Changes:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must be used to change the email and mobile number only after confirmation from the user via their registered mobile number or email through an OTP.
            - The updated number should also be verified by the RMs through an OTP.
        - **Notification to Lender:**
            - **Requirement:** The admin tool must trigger an email notification to the lender to inform them of the changes in the user's contact details.
        - **Database Update:**
            - **Requirement:** Upon successful receipt of confirmation from the lender, the admin tool must be used to update the user's contact information in our internal database.

## User stories / User flow

## Requirements

---

# **Design**

---

# **Analytics**

---

# **Timeline/Release Planning**

---

# **Go to market**

## Marketing

## Ops & Sales training

## Frequently asked questions (FAQs)

---

# **Action items / checklist**

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

- [ ]  Product
    - [ ]  -
- [ ]  Business
    - [ ]  -
- [ ]  Design
    - [ ]  -

---

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

[](data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAEgAAABICAYAAABV7bNHAAAA1ElEQVR4Ae3bMQ4BURSFYY2xBuwQ7BIkTGxFRj9Oo9RdkXn5TvL3L19u+2ZmZmZmZhVbpH26pFcaJ9IrndMudb/CWadHGiden1bll9MIzqd79SUd0thY20qga4NA50qgoUGgoRJo/NL/V/N+QIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIECBAgQIAAAQIEyFeEZyXQpUGgUyXQrkGgTSVQl/qGcG5pnkq3Sn0jOMv0k3Vpm05pmNjfsGPalFyOmZmZmdkbSS9cKbtzhxMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=)

# **Feedback**

---

# **Learnings & Next steps**

---

# **Appendix**

## Meeting notes