# UPI Autopay

: Parikshit Kumar
Created time: July 15, 2025 12:29 PM
Status: In progress
Last edited: April 1, 2026 11:46 AM

### This PRD will focus on the UPI autopay feature for the OD product.

# **What problem are we solving?**

- Customers need to keep their Debit card or Netbanking details handy for setting up NACH, which results in drop-offs.
- MFDs need to ask customers for their Debit card or Netbanking details, which involves OTP, etc resulting in drop-offs and increased queries.
- Physical NACH which covers most banks requires considerable human intervention in completing the flow resulting in drop-offs.
- ESign NACH which covers ~450 banks has very high failure rates due to bank account not linked to Aadhaar, mobile linkage issue b/w account and Aadhaar, etc.

# **How do we measure success?**

### L1 Metrics

- Registration Success Rate – Percentage of borrowers who successfully complete UPI Autopay registration.
- Mandate Rejection Rate – Percentage of mandate registrations failing due to incorrect details, or bank rejections.
- TAT for Mandate Setup – Time taken to complete the UPI Autopay registration process.
- Mandate Presentation Success Rate - Percentage of mandate presentations successful, including first and subsequent presentations(if any)
- Mandate Presentation Failure Rate – Percentage of mandate presentations failing due to insufficient funds, or other reasons.

### Other Important Metrics

- Application TAT - Time taken for a customer or MFD or LSP to complete an application from fetch to mandate.

# **What is the solution?**

UPI Autopay is the ideal solution for NBFCs looking to improve digital lending collections and interest payments. It offers a faster, easy to setup, cost-effective, and automated way to handle recurring payments compared to traditional NACH mandates.

### Key Features & Benefits of UPI Autopay

1. Instant Mandate Registration
    - Borrowers can set up mandates in real-time via UPI apps like PhonePe, Google Pay, and Paytm.
    - No need for physical forms or long approval timelines like NACH.
2. Lower Rejection Rates
    - Direct customer authorization via UPI reduces the risk of incorrect details or failed registrations.
3. Automated & Timely Debit Processing
    - Auto-debits occur on scheduled dates without customer intervention.
4. Real-time Status Tracking & Failure Handling
    - Instant callbacks & APIs provide real-time debit status updates.
    - Automatic retries (up to 8 times) for failed debits due to insufficient funds.
5. Flexible Debit Options
    - Supports multiple debits per day for high-ticket loans (split payments).
6. Seamless Integration
    - Can be integrated via SDK into our system.

## User Personas

There will be two different types of User Personas:

1. User Persona 1: These will be users who will get the options of mandate setup through both the methods of UPI and Nach because as per product policy, they are eligible within BRE for UPI mandate.
2. User Persona 2: These will be users who will only get the option of mandate setup through the Nach method.

These User Personas are created based on the threshold value of DP which is decided based on the BRE.

## How it Works?

### Pre-requisites

Below are the pre-requisites.

- DSP completes the integration with Digio for UPI mandates
- DSP creates a UPI ID. Sample : dspfinance.digio@yesbank
- Mandate amount: 15K (this is the maximum amount permitted without AFA)
- Mandate tenure: 10 years
- Mandate MCC: 7322 (Loan repayments)
- Mandate cannot be revoked by users
- DSP creates a subscription at a customer level

### **Registration Flow**

Below is the mandate registration flow.

- The user intending to take a loan against mutual funds enters through Volt channel or any other 3rd party LSP like Groww, Indmoney, etc (Not PhonePe).
- The user completes all necessary KYC steps, uploads a selfie, and provides additional data for the DSP lender on the UI.
- The user sees the UPI mandate option if the drawing power is below a certain threshold based on the BRE. If the user has a drawing power more than the threshold, the user has to setup a mandate using NACH only.
- Alternatively, the user can always choose to setup a mandate using NACH for lower amount as well. Note: we might increase the DP limit threshold for UPI mandates as we go basis our experience.
- LSP prompts the user to set up the UPI mandate using one of the 3 modes.
- At this stage, we will prompt the customer to setup mandate using the registered bank account only(through the TPV provisioning by Digio):
    - QR code - the user scans the QR code of the mandate and completes the registration flow. This flow is ideal for desktop flows.
    - Intent Link - the user clicks on the link a list of TPAPs (PhonePe, GPay, PayTm, etc) are opened up which are installed on the device. This flow is ideal for app or mobile web flows like in B2C or B2B channels.
    - Collect request - the provider triggers mandate setup against a VPA passed by DSP. In this case, the customer or the MFD needs to enter their VPA/UPI ID. This flow is ideal for desktop flows or where the customer is being assisted like in MFD channel.
- Mandate link - the provider creates a link which is shared with DSP. DSP creates a wrapper on that link that can be shared with the customer. This will be a deep-link that can be opened on mobile. This is required for MFD channels.
- The user is redirected to the TPAP UI where they see the mandate registration screen for intent/QR/link or navigates to the relevant app in case of collect request flow.
- The user authorizes the mandate with their MPIN on the TPAP UI. There will be a 1 INR debit from the customer.
- If the user’s MPIN is valid, the mandate is setup and DSP receives a callback from Digio with the status of the mandate registration
- DSP records the status and takes the user to the next page.
- If the user faces an error after setting up a UPI mandate, the user can retry using NACH as well and setup a mandate using NACH.

### Collect flow details:

1. **User Initiates Mandate Creation:** User initiates mandate creation on the LSP Application(DSP Lender).
2. **Mandate Request to Digio:** LSP Application sends mandate creation request to Digio.
3. **Mandate Creation with Acquiring Bank:** Digio initiates mandate creation with the Acquiring Bank(Which has issued the Merchant/DSP VPA) 
4. **Request to UPI Application (NPCI):** Acquiring Bank/Payee PSP forwards the mandate creation request to UPI Application (NPCI).
5. **Mandate Request to Remitter Bank:** UPI Application (NPCI) sends the mandate creation request to the Remitter Bank/Payer PSP.
6. **User Confirms Mandate:** User verifies mandate details & enters PIN for confirmation in the PSP/UPI-enabled mobile app.
7. **Mandate Creation Response to UPI Application:** Payer PSP provides mandate creation response to UPI Application (NPCI).
8. **Mandate Response to Acquiring Bank:** UPI Application (NPCI) sends mandate creation response to Acquirer Bank/Payee PSP.
9. **Confirmation to Digio:** Acquirer Bank sends confirmation for successful authentication to Digio.
10. **Confirmation to Merchant:** Digio provides confirmation to the Merchant(DSP) via webhook.
11. **Confirmation to LSP:** DSP updates the mandate details and accordingly registration successful is shown to the user on the LSP app.

### Intent flow details:

1. **User Initiates Mandate Creation:** User initiates mandate creation on the LSP Application(DSP Lender).
2. **Mandate Request to Digio:** LSP Application sends mandate creation request to Digio.
3. **Mandate Creation with Payer PSP:** Digio initiates mandate creation with Payer PSP.
4. **Request to UPI Application (NPCI):** Payer PSP forwards mandate creation request to UPI Application (NPCI).
5. **Verification with Acquirer Bank:** UPI Application (NPCI) verifies merchant/DSP details with Acquirer Bank/Payee PSP.
6. **Confirmation from Acquirer Bank:** Acquirer Bank confirms merchant/DSP details request with UPI Application (NPCI).
7. **Mandate Request to Remitter Bank:** UPI Application (NPCI) requests mandate creation from Remitter Bank/Payer PSP.
8. **Response from Remitter Bank:** Remitter Bank responds with mandate creation request.
9. **Mandate Creation Response to Payer PSP:** UPI Application (NPCI) sends mandate creation response to Payer PSP.
10. **Mandate Response to Acquiring Bank:** UPI Application (NPCI) sends mandate creation response to Acquirer Bank/Payee PSP.
11. **ACK to UPI Application:** Acquirer Bank/Payee PSP sends ACK to UPI Application (NPCI).
12. **Confirmation to Digio:** Acquirer Bank sends confirmation for successful authentication to Digio.
13. **Update to Merchant:** Digio updates Merchant/DSP with successful authentication and accordingly its displayed in the LSP application.

## Presentation Flow

- Platform/Digio notify users before each transaction via pre-debit notifications (PDN)
- These PDNs need to be sent to the users atleast 24 hours before the auto-debit
- The auto-debit is executed by Digio
- Users receive real-time status updates regarding their payments
- Against a single mandate, multiple debits can be initiated capped to 1L/day

**Below is the Debit Execution Flow:**

1. **Debit Request to Digio:** Merchant/DSP sends a debit request to Digio.
2. **Pre-Debit Notifications:** For all successful pre-debit Notifications, debit requests are sent by Digio to the Acquiring Bank.
3. **Collect Request to UPI Application:** Payee PSP/Acquiring Bank initiates the collect request to UPI Application/NPCI.
4. **Request Authentication Details:** UPI Application/NPCI sends the authentication details request to Payer PSP.
5. **Validation of Collect Request:** Payer PSP validates the collect request against the mandate data table and successful PDN, and responds with the auth details.
6. **Debit Request to Remitter Bank:** UPI Application/NPCI sends the debit request to Remitter Bank.
7. **Confirmation from Remitter Bank:** Remitter Bank validates & sends the confirmation to UPI Application/NPCI of the Debit request.
8. **Credit Request to Acquiring Bank:** UPI Application/NPCI sends the credit request to Acquiring Bank.
9. **ACK from Acquiring Bank:** Acquiring Bank sends ACK to UPI Application/NPCI.
10. **Confirmation to Payer PSP:** UPI Application/NPCI sends the successful confirmation to the Payer PSP.
11. **Confirmation to Payee PSP/Acquiring Bank:** UPI Application/NPCI sends the successful confirmation to the Payee PSP/Acquiring Bank.
12. **Confirmation to Digio:** Acquirer Bank sends confirmation for successful debit to Digio.
13. **Confirmation to Merchant:** Digio provides confirmation to the Merchant via webhook.

## Requirements/User Flow

The flow is broken down into 2 parts.

1. Registration
2. Presentation

### Registration

- The user reaches the mandate setup step after the bank account addition and verification step.
- Based on the User Personas, the user is either shown both the options of UPI and Nach or they will be seeing the option of only Nach.
- Since Nach flow is already in place hence not covering that here.
- When a user gets both the options of UPI and Nach and the user confirms on setting up a UPI mandate then they will be shown the mandate details as mentioned below:
    1. Maximum Mandate Amount: Rs 15000
    2. Debit Frequency: As Presented
    3. Validity(From and To): From - 16th July 2025 To - 14th July 2035(10 Years Validity)
- They are given the option on UI to setup a mandate through one of the below modes based on the channel.
    1. QR (only for desktop)
    2. Intent link (only for mobile)
    3. Collect request

- If the user chooses Collect request, the user needs to enter the VPA.
- If the VPA is invalid, the user is shown a message as ‘Invalid UPI ID. Please enter a valid UPI ID or use other modes to setup the mandate.
- Only if the VPA is valid the user is allowed to proceed if its a collect flow.
- If the user chooses QR/Intent, the user isn’t asked for any details on UI. They are redirected to the UPI app which they select for the mandate setup.

### **Billing Flow**

Below is the billing flow for OD offering.

- DSP generates the interest for the previous month on the 1st of every month basis the usage
- DSP communicates the billed amount to LSPs via a web-hook and customers (via LSPs) through communication channels.
- Customers can come to Volt or LSP app and pay the due amount and the same is adjusted against the outstanding interest, charge and principal (in that order).
- The final amount to be presented for UPI based mandates will need to be finalised on 5th(exact timing to be decided) since DSP needs to intimate Digio for debiting funds at least 24 hours before the actual debit.
- The UPI mandate presentation file will be generated similar to NACH and will be available on CC, which will be approved by operations before presentation.
- If the customer pays before the above cut-off, the interest, charge and principal amount is adjusted by the amount paid towards them.

### **Presentation Flow**

Below is the mandate presentation flow.

- DSP initiates a debit notification with debit date as 7th and triggers the API call to Digio on the 5th at a pre-decided time.
- Digio initiates a pre-debit notification (PDN) to the customers accordingly and informs DSP of the status after retries.
- I~~f PDN fails, DSP re-triggers PDN to Digio immediately so that the debit can be placed next day where feasible~~
- DSP intimates the customers in case of PDN failure due to customer level issues like bank account issue, VPA issue, etc
- If PDN succeeds, Digio triggers the debit notification to NPCI at its end at a customer level on 7th at a pre-decided time.
- Digio receives the status from NPCI at a customer level which is propagated to DSP through a callback
- If DSP receives a successful confirmation from Digio for a debit, DSP posts an entry in the LMS which apportions the funds towards the due/overdue amount.
- DSP informs the LSP through APIs of successful debit through a webhook to the configured end-points of the LSP.
- If DSP receives a failure intimation from Digio due to customer level issue, DSP levies a bounce charge on the customer and re-triggers a debit based on the Business logic.

**Points to Note**

- The number of retries for debit needs to be finalized
- Customer isn’t levied a bounce charge by bank for UPI mandates unlike NACH
- A minimum of 24 hours TAT is required between PDN and debit

### **PDN and Debit Retry Logic:**

1. The PDN is automatically retried internally, requiring no action from DSP.
2. Status will be shared with DSP.
    1. Success
    2. Failure
3. 

### 

[Webhook Handling Flow](UPI%20Autopay/Webhook%20Handling%20Flow%20281e8d3af13a80b38063c0356dcac82b.md)

### Reconciliation

@Parikshit Kumar to take Shreyas’ help.

# GTM